What is Computer? - A computer is a device that processes data and can used ato be perform a wide range of tasks, from basic calculations to complex operations involving AI. 
It has two main parts which is the hardware and the software. The hardware i responsible for executing tasks and it refers to the computer's physical components, and the software provides the hardware with directions for what task is perfrom.
Most computers rely on a binary system, which uses two variables, 0 and 1, to complete tasks such as storing data, calculating algorithms, and displaying information.

What are the essential parts of the computer? - 

The Motherboard
                                                
Central Proccesing Unit (CPU)
                                                
RAM
                                               
Hard drive
                                               
Power supply 
                                               
GPU
                                               
Hardware
                                               
Monitor

Who are the notable inventors of hardware and software? Cite atleast (5) software developers and (5) hardware developers. 

SOFTWARE INVETORS:
1, Marc Andreessen – Netscape, the first widely-used web browser, and the co-founder of Netscape Communications.
2, Larry Page and Sergey Brin – Google, they invented Google in 1996 as a research project and then the Google website launched in 1997, and by the end of 1998 it had indexed about 60 million web pages.
3, Steve Jobs – Apple, Pixar, the co-founder of apple and a co-founder/former CEO of Pixar Animation Studios
4, Tim Berners-Lee – World Wide Web, the inventor of the World Wide Web in March 1989. Published the first website on August 6, 1991. Tim Berners-Lee founded World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
5, Bill Gates – Microsoft, is the co-founder and chairman of Microsoft which is the world's largest software company with over 79,000 employees in 102 countries and a $51 billion in annual sales

HARDWARE INVENTORS:
 1, Federico Faggin invented the  first commercial CPU. He is a physicist, inventor, and entreprenuer. Born and raised, and educated in Italy. He was credited by designing the worlds first commercial microproccessor, the Intel 4004
 2, Patty McHugh invented the motherboard. The first backplane to qualify as a motherboard was a Planar Breadboard.
 3, Robert Dennard invented the Dynamic Random Access Memory (RAM). In the 1967, Robert Heath Dennard invented what is considered to be one of the most significant advances in computer technology which he called the one-transistor dynamics random access memory, or DRAM
 4, Reynold B. Johnson came up with the idea of the external hard drive. An American inventor and computer pioneer, Johnson is said to be the "father" of the hard drive disk.
 5, Fujio Masuoka invented the basis for flash-based SSDs, flash memory


Cite your reference/s
Margaret Rouse (2024) What is a Computer? Everything You Need To Know. 
      https://www.techopedia.com/definition/4607/computer
Computer basics: Inside a computer. (n.d.).  
       GCFGlobal.org. https://edu.gcfglobal.org/en/computerbasics/inside-a-computer/1/
Top 10 software innovators of all time. (n.d.).
       https://www.devtopics.com/top-10-software-innovators-of-all-time/
Computer basics: Buttons and ports on a computer. (n.d.). 
       GCFGlobal.org. https://edu.gcfglobal.org/en/computerbasics/buttons-and-ports-on-a-computer/1/
Computer History Museum. (2021, February 12). Federico Faggin - 
       CHM. CHM. https://computerhistory.org/profile/federico-faggin/
